feat: mdns (#260)
libp2p/docs: content/concepts/discovery/mDNS.md

---
title: "mDNS"
description: "MDNS uses a multicast system of DNS records over a local network to enable peer discovery."
weight: 224
---

## What is mDNS?

mDNS, or multicast Domain Name System, is a way for nodes to use a multicast system
of DNS records over a local network to discover and communicate with nodes. Nodes
broadcast topics they're interested in instead of querying a central name server.
The discovery, however, is limited to the peers in the local network. mDNS is commonly
used on home networks to allow devices such as computers, printers, and smart TVs to
find each other and connect. It uses a protocol called multicast to broadcast messages
on the network, allowing devices to discover each other and exchange information.

## mDNS in libp2p

> In libp2p, mDNS is used for service discovery.

Reviewer: Nope! It's used for peer discovery.

When a peer wants to connect to another peer in a libp2p network,

> it can use mDNS to resolve the hostname of the other peer to its multiaddr.

Reviewer: No, we don't use it for address resolution. We use it to find _all_ other peers in the network.

A peer can broadcast a query request to *find all peers* on a local network to
receive DNS response messages from peers, which contain the peer information
of discovered peers. The response message is in the form of a DNS record:

`<service-name> PTR <peer-name>.<service-name>`,

where `<service-name>` is `_p2p._udp.local`, the name of the service that is being
advertised.

> > `peer-name` is not used for anything and can be filled with a string with random characters.

Reviewer: This needs to be rephrased. Example:
In libp2p, we don't have any use for `peer-name`. Since the wire format requires us to send something, we send a string of random ASCII characters.

> A TXT record contains the multiaddresses that the peer is listening on. A peer

Reviewer: This needs to point out that this belongs to the query that is being sent.

> encodes the multiaddr of the other peer into the DNS record. Each multiaddress is a TXT

Reviewer: No, how would it know the multiaddr of other peers?

attribute with the form `dnsaddr=/.../p2p/QmId`.

> > `dnsaddr` is a protocol that instructs the resolver to look up multiaddr(s) in DNS TXT records for the

Reviewer: It's not really a protocol, it's an encoding.

> domain name in its value section. To resolve a `dnsaddr` multiaddr, the domain name in the value section

> > must first be prefixed with `_dnsaddr.`. Then the peer must make a DNS query to look up TXT records for the domain. Multiple dnsaddr attributes and/or TXT records are allowed.

Reviewer: That's not correct. There's really no reason to use `/dns` addresses here, which seems to be what you're describing. Most commonly, we just multiaddresses containing IP addresses here. It's a local network after all.

---
title: "MDNS"
description: "MDNS uses a multicast system of DNS records over a local network to enable peer discovery."
weight: 224
---

## What is mDNS?

> MDNS, or multicast Domain Name System, uses a multicast system of DNS records over a
> local network. Nodes broadcast topics they're interested in into the network instead of
> querying a central name server. The discovery is limited to the peers in the local network.
> 
> MDNS uses UDP to enable hostname resolution on local networks, allowing it to be used
> on networks that support multicast, such as an office. In turn, it can also use DNS to
> resolve hostnames to IP addresses on the Internet. MDNS does not require a central DNS
> server to operate, as a node can resolve hostnames to IP addresses in a decentralized
> manner.

Reviewer: This is not really correct. We're not interested in hostname resolution, we're interested in service discovery. I don't think it has anything to do with DNS over the internet.

I'd go with something along these lines (taken from ChatGPT):
```suggestion
mDNS is short for multicast Domain Name System. It is a way for devices on a local network to discover and communicate with each other without the need for a central server. It is commonly used on home networks to allow devices such as computers, printers, and smart TVs to find each other and connect. It uses a protocol called multicast to broadcast messages on the network, allowing devices to discover each other and exchange information.
```

> ## MDNS in libp2p

Reviewer: wrong capitalization

In libp2p, mDNS can be used as part of the [rendezvous protocol](rendezvous) to enable peers
to discover and connect. When a peer wants to connect to another peer in a libp2p network,

> it can use mDNS to resolve the hostname of the other peer to its multiaddress.

Reviewer: This is not correct. There's no rendezvouz server here. mDNS is used to find _all_ nodes on a local network, not to find a specific node.

> MDNS follows a request-response model, where a peer broadcasts a query request to *find all peers*

Reviewer: I wouldn't call this request-response.

on a local network to receive DNS response messages from peers which contain the peer information
of discovered peers. The response message is in the form of DNS record:

`<service-name> PTR <peer-name>.<service-name>`,

> where `<service-name>` is the name of the service that is being advertised, and

Reviewer: It's `_p2p._udp.local`.

> `<peer-name>` is the name of the peer [that is providing the service].

Reviewer: It's not. We don't have any use for that field, so we just fill it with a string with random characters.

The `<service-name>` part of the record indicates the domain in which the service
and peer are located.

> As responses are received, the peer adds the other peers' information into its local database of peers.

Reviewer: That's an implementation detail. We should only say that we encode the multiaddr of the peer into the DNS record.
